Sunset DI log probes and prepare Live Debugger docs for GA (#37791)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_collection/dynamic_instrumentation/_index.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynamic Instrumentation supports Java, Python, .NET, and PHP. It requires the following:
```

- link: "/metrics"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about Metrics"
---

## Overview

Dynamic Instrumentation lets you add metrics, spans, and span tags to running production systems without restarts or code changes, including in third-party libraries.

If you are interested in trying out the latest user experience improvements for Dynamic Instrumentation, consider opting into the [autocomplete and search Preview][17].

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

Dynamic Instrumentation supports Java, Python, .NET, and PHP. It requires the following:

> - [Datadog Agent][1] 7.49.0 or higher is installed alongside your service (7.73.0 or higher for Go).

Reviewer: **Must fix:** This Go Agent note contradicts the supported-languages list above, which no longer includes Go.

```suggestion
- [Datadog Agent][1] 7.49.0 or higher is installed alongside your service.
```

#### Manual enablement

Manual enablement is required for PHP and for older SDK versions of Java, Python, and .NET. You can also choose manual enablement on supported SDK versions if you prefer to manage enablement through environment variables (for example, to enable Dynamic Instrumentation in bulk across many services).

Select your runtime for manual enablement instructions:

{{< card-grid card_width="170px" >}}
  {{< image-card href="/dynamic_instrumentation/enabling/java" src="integrations_logos/java.png" alt="Java" >}}
  {{< image-card href="/dynamic_instrumentation/enabling/python" src="integrations_logos/python.png" alt="Python" >}}
  {{< image-card href="/dynamic_instrumentation/enabling/dotnet" src="integrations_logos/dotnet-core.png" alt="Dotnet" >}}
  {{< image-card href="/dynamic_instrumentation/enabling/dotnet" src="integrations_logos/dotnet-framework.png" alt="Dotnet" >}}
  {{< image-card href="/dynamic_instrumentation/enabling/php" src="integrations_logos/php.png" alt="PHP" >}}
{{< /card-grid >}}

### Limitations

- Dynamic Instrumentation is not compatible with Azure App Services or serverless environments.

> - Not all instrumentation types are supported in every language. See the [Enable Dynamic Instrumentation](#enable-dynamic-instrumentation) section for supported features and limitations.

Reviewer: **Must fix:** The [Enable Dynamic Instrumentation](#enable-dynamic-instrumentation) section now covers enablement only—it no longer lists per-language supported features or limitations. Those details live on the language-specific enabling pages.

```suggestion
- Not all instrumentation types are supported in every language. See the language-specific enabling pages linked from [Enable Dynamic Instrumentation](#enable-dynamic-instrumentation) for supported features and limitations.
```

1. Go to the [Dynamic Instrumentation page][12].
1. Click {{< ui >}}Create Instrumentation{{< /ui >}} in the top right, or click the three-dot menu on a service and select {{< ui >}}Add an instrumentation for this service{{< /ui >}}.
1. If they are not prefilled, choose service, runtime, environment, and version (optional).
1. Specify where to set the instrumentation in the source code by selecting either a class and method, or a specific line of code in a file. When autocomplete and search are available, use them to find files, methods, or symbols.

For the best experience, set up [Source Code Integration][7] to view code directly in Datadog and select instrumentation locations as you would with breakpoints in an IDE.

For creation steps specific to each instrumentation type, see the following sections.

<div class="alert alert-info">Dynamic log instrumentations are supported in <a href="/tracing/live_debugger/">Live Debugger</a>. Use Live Debugger to capture logs and variable snapshots in real time from running applications.</div>

### Creating dynamic metrics

A dynamic metric emits a metric when it executes. To create a dynamic metric:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. Select {{< ui >}}Metric{{< /ui >}} as the instrumentation type.
1. Complete the [generic instrumentation setup](#creating-an-instrumentation) (choose service, environment, and location).

> 1. Specify a name for the metric, which will be prefixed with `dynamic.instrumentation.metric.probe.`.

Reviewer: **Must fix:** Avoid temporal words like "will" (Datadog.tense).

```suggestion
1. Specify a name for the metric, which is prefixed with `dynamic.instrumentation.metric.probe.`.
```

Metric instrumentations are automatically enabled on all service instances that match the configured environment and version. Metric instrumentations are not rate limited and execute every time the method or line is invoked.

Dynamic Instrumentation supports the following metric types:

- {{< ui >}}Count{{< /ui >}}: Counts how many times a given method or line is executed. Can be combined with [metric expressions][15] to use the value of a variable to increment the count.
- {{< ui >}}Gauge{{< /ui >}}: Generates a gauge based on the last value of a variable. This metric requires a [metric expression][15].
- {{< ui >}}Histogram{{< /ui >}}: Generates a statistical distribution of a variable. This metric requires a [metric expression][15].

### Creating dynamic spans

A dynamic span emits a span when a method is executed. To create a dynamic span:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: **Suggestion:** Remove the extra blank line before the numbered list.

1. Select {{< ui >}}Span{{< /ui >}} as the instrumentation type.
1. Complete the [generic instrumentation setup](#creating-an-instrumentation) (choose service, environment, version, and location).

You can use a dynamic span as an alternative to [creating spans with Custom Instrumentation][13]. If the method throws an exception, the details of the exception are associated with the newly created span's `error` tag.

### Creating dynamic span tags

A dynamic span tag adds a tag value to an existing span. You can add a tag to either the _active_ span or the _service entry_ span.

**Note**: Internal spans are not indexed by default and so might not be searchable in APM.

To create a dynamic span tag:

1. Select {{< ui >}}Span Tag{{< /ui >}} as the instrumentation type.
1. Complete the [generic instrumentation setup](#creating-an-instrumentation) (choose service, environment, version, and location).
1. Specify a name for the tag.
1. Specify the value of the tag using the [Dynamic Instrumentation expression language][15].

> 1. Optionally define a condition using the Dynamic Instrumentation expression language. The tag will only be added when the expression evaluates to true.

Reviewer: **Must fix:** Avoid temporal words like "will" (Datadog.tense).

```suggestion
1. Optionally define a condition using the Dynamic Instrumentation expression language. The tag is added only when the expression evaluates to true.
```

- [Remote Configuration][2] is enabled in that Agent.
- A supported Datadog SDK is installed and up to date. See the [Enable Dynamic Instrumentation](#enable-dynamic-instrumentation) section for version requirements.
- [Unified Service Tagging][6] tags `service`, `env`, and `version` are applied to your deployment.
- Recommended: [Source Code Integration][7] is set up for your service.

### Permissions

The following permissions are required to use Dynamic Instrumentation:

- **Dynamic Instrumentation Read Configuration** (`debugger_read`): Required to access the Dynamic Instrumentation page.
- One of the following write permissions:
  - **Dynamic Instrumentation Write Configuration** (`debugger_write`): Required to create or modify instrumentations in any environment.
  - **Dynamic Instrumentation Write Pre-Prod** (`debugger_write_preprod`): Required to create or modify instrumentations in known pre-production environments only (such as staging or QA).

For more information about roles and how to assign roles to users, see [Role Based Access Control][8].

### Enable Dynamic Instrumentation

> Dynamic Instrumentation supports Java, Python, .NET, and PHP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<div class="alert alert-info">Dynamic Instrumentation and <a href="/tracing/live_debugger/">Live Debugger</a> share the same enablement state per service and environment: enabling or disabling one also enables or disables the other. The two products have separate permissions and Settings pages.</div>

> #### In-app enablement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### (Recommended) In-app enablement
```

For Java, Python, and .NET services that meet the minimum SDK requirements, manage Dynamic Instrumentation for each service and environment from the [Dynamic Instrumentation Settings page][16]. In-app enablement is supported on the following minimum SDK versions:

- [Java][18] ≥ 1.48.0
- [Python][19] ≥ 3.10.0
- [.NET][20] ≥ 3.29.0

If your SDK meets the minimum version, Datadog automatically attempts to enable the service the first time you create an instrumentation for it, as long as all prerequisites are met.

> Datadog recommends keeping your SDK up to date to take advantage of in-app enablement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manage Dynamic Instrumentation for each service and environment from the [Dynamic Instrumentation Settings page][16]. In-app enablement is supported on the following minimum SDK versions:

- [Java][18] ≥ 1.48.0
- [Python][19] ≥ 3.10.0
- [.NET][20] ≥ 3.29.0

If your SDK meets the minimum version and all prerequisites are met, Datadog automatically attempts to enable the service the first time you create an instrumentation for it.
```

#### Manual enablement

> Manual enablement is required for PHP, and for older SDK versions of Java, Python, and .NET. You can also choose manual enablement on supported SDK versions if you prefer to manage enablement through environment variables, for example, to enable Dynamic Instrumentation in bulk across many services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manual enablement is required for PHP and for older SDK versions of Java, Python, and .NET. You can also choose manual enablement on supported SDK versions if you prefer to manage enablement through environment variables (for example, to enable Dynamic Instrumentation in bulk across many services).
```

### Creating an instrumentation

All instrumentation types require the same initial setup:

1. Go to the [Dynamic Instrumentation page][12].
1. Click {{< ui >}}Create Instrumentation{{< /ui >}} in the top right, or click the three-dot menu on a service and select {{< ui >}}Add an instrumentation for this service{{< /ui >}}.
1. If they are not prefilled, choose service, runtime, environment, and version (optional).
1. Specify where to set the instrumentation in the source code by selecting either a class and method, or a specific line of code in a file. When autocomplete and search are available, use them to find files, methods, or symbols.

For the best experience, set up [Source Code Integration][7] to view code directly in Datadog and select instrumentation locations as you would with breakpoints in an IDE.

For creation steps specific to each instrumentation type, see the following sections.

<div class="alert alert-info">Dynamic log instrumentations are supported in <a href="/tracing/live_debugger/">Live Debugger</a>. Use Live Debugger to capture logs and variable snapshots in real time from running applications.</div>

### Creating dynamic metrics

> A dynamic metric emits a metric when it executes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A dynamic metric emits a metric when it executes. To create a dynamic metric:
```

> To create a dynamic metric:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. Choose the value of the metric using the [Dynamic Instrumentation expression language][15]. You can use any numeric value you'd like from the execution context, such as a method parameter, local variable, a class field, or an expression that yields a numeric value. For count metrics this is optional, and if you omit it, every invocation increments the count by one.

Metric instrumentations are automatically enabled on all service instances that match the configured environment and version. Metric instrumentations are not rate limited and execute every time the method or line is invoked.

Dynamic Instrumentation supports the following metric types:

- {{< ui >}}Count{{< /ui >}}: Counts how many times a given method or line is executed. Can be combined with [metric expressions][15] to use the value of a variable to increment the count.
- {{< ui >}}Gauge{{< /ui >}}: Generates a gauge based on the last value of a variable. This metric requires a [metric expression][15].
- {{< ui >}}Histogram{{< /ui >}}: Generates a statistical distribution of a variable. This metric requires a [metric expression][15].

### Creating dynamic spans

> A *dynamic span* emits a span when a method is executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A dynamic span emits a span when a method is executed. To create a dynamic span:
```

> To create a dynamic span:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. Select {{< ui >}}Span{{< /ui >}} as the instrumentation type.
1. Complete the [generic instrumentation setup](#creating-an-instrumentation) (choose service, environment, version, and location).

> You can use a *dynamic span* as an alternative to [creating new spans with Custom Instrumentation][13]. If the method throws an exception, the details of the exception are associated with the newly created span's `error` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a dynamic span as an alternative to [creating spans with Custom Instrumentation][13]. If the method throws an exception, the details of the exception are associated with the newly created span's `error` tag.
```

### Creating dynamic span tags

> A *dynamic span tag* adds a tag value to an existing span. You can add a tag either to the _active_ span or to the _service entry_ span.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A dynamic span tag adds a tag value to an existing span. You can add a tag to either the _active_ span or the _service entry_ span.
```

> Keep in mind that internal spans are not indexed by default and so might not be searchable in APM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Note**: Internal spans are not indexed by default and so might not be searchable in APM.
```

Dynamic Instrumentation can help you understand what your application is doing at runtime. By adding an instrumentation at a specific code location, you can capture additional telemetry from your application without the need to change code or redeploy it.

### Using instrumentations

An instrumentation allows you to collect additional telemetry from specific points in your code without halting the execution of the program.

Dynamic spans, span tags, and metrics are a UI-based alternative to adding custom instrumentation directly to your source code. Datadog receives the instrumentation configurations you define and dynamically applies them to the running service without requiring restarts.

Datadog captures and processes spans, tags, and metrics generated by Dynamic Instrumentation like other telemetry from the running application. Unlike manual custom instrumentation, Dynamic Instrumentation does not require code changes, deployments, or service restarts. To stop collecting data, disable the instrumentation in Datadog.

### Creating an instrumentation

All instrumentation types require the same initial setup:

1. Go to the [Dynamic Instrumentation page][12].

> 1. Click **Create Instrumentation** in the top right, or click the three-dot menu on a service and select **Add an instrumentation for this service**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click {{< ui >}}Create Instrumentation{{< /ui >}} in the top right, or click the three-dot menu on a service and select {{< ui >}}Add an instrumentation for this service{{< /ui >}}.
```

1. If they are not prefilled, choose service, runtime, environment, and version (optional).
1. Specify where to set the instrumentation in the source code by selecting either a class and method, or a specific line of code in a file. When autocomplete and search are available, use them to find files, methods, or symbols.

For the best experience, set up [Source Code Integration][7] to view code directly in Datadog and select instrumentation locations as you would with breakpoints in an IDE.

See the individual instrumentation types below for specific creation steps for each instrumentation type.

<div class="alert alert-info">Dynamic log instrumentations are supported in <a href="/tracing/live_debugger/">Live Debugger</a>. Use Live Debugger to capture logs and variable snapshots in real time from running applications.</div>

### Creating dynamic metrics

A dynamic metric emits a metric when it executes.

To create a dynamic metric:

> 1. Select **Metric** as the instrumentation type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select {{< ui >}}Metric{{< /ui >}} as the instrumentation type.
```

Metric instrumentations are automatically enabled on all service instances that match the configured environment and version. Metric instrumentations are not rate limited and execute every time the method or line is invoked.

Dynamic Instrumentation supports the following metric types:

- {{< ui >}}Count{{< /ui >}}: Counts how many times a given method or line is executed. Can be combined with [metric expressions][15] to use the value of a variable to increment the count.
- {{< ui >}}Gauge{{< /ui >}}: Generates a gauge based on the last value of a variable. This metric requires a [metric expression][15].
- {{< ui >}}Histogram{{< /ui >}}: Generates a statistical distribution of a variable. This metric requires a [metric expression][15].

### Creating dynamic spans

A *dynamic span* emits a span when a method is executed.

To create a dynamic span:

> 1. Select **Span** as the instrumentation type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select {{< ui >}}Span{{< /ui >}} as the instrumentation type.
```

1. Complete the [generic instrumentation setup](#creating-an-instrumentation) (choose service, environment, version, and location).

You can use a *dynamic span* as an alternative to [creating new spans with Custom Instrumentation][13]. If the method throws an exception, the details of the exception are associated with the newly created span's `error` tag.

### Creating dynamic span tags

A *dynamic span tag* adds a tag value to an existing span. You can add a tag either to the _active_ span or to the _service entry_ span.
Keep in mind that internal spans are not indexed by default and so might not be searchable in APM.

To create a dynamic span tag:

> 1. Select **Span Tag** as the instrumentation type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select {{< ui >}}Span Tag{{< /ui >}} as the instrumentation type.
```
